Introduction
Decentralized Finance (DeFi) is becoming one of the most popular applications of blockchain technology. 
There is copious amounts of money being invested into the development of DeFi projects. 
This in turn makes DeFi applications a common target of cybersecurity attacks.
By studying various security analysis tools we can identify different vulnerabilities from DeFi applications. 
The purpose of this project is to analyze multiple applications and observe if there are common vulnerabilities.

Related Work
Analysis of the Cyber Threats in DeFi research paper provided a framework and standardized terminology in regards to DeFi security threats. 
Money Lego is a term used to describe exploits that have a cascading effect through interdependencies between DeFi protocols. 
This paper also categorized four main types of attacks and provided mitigation strategies. 
It was found that the most common attack was market attacks which targeted marketing mechanisms of multiple DeFi protocols. 
The second most common attack was exploitation of smart contract code. Blockchain Vulnerabilities in Practice discussed these attacks in more detail. 
The main ways to attack the contracts was via reentrancy attacks and integer overflows. 
The best way to prevent these would be to adhere to secure coding practices. 
Furthermore, Analyzing Financial Smart Contracts for Blockchain details the creation of a smart contract being deployed onto the blockchain using Ethereum. 
The research paper covers the inherent vulnerabilities of blockchain technology, as well as different tools that can be used to analyze smart contracts. 
One such tool is called Oyente. Its purpose is to detect common bugs found in smart contracts, such as reentrancy, transaction ordering dependence etc. 
Analyzing Financial Smart Contracts for Blockchain thoroughly explains blockchain vulnerabilities in regards to smart contracts, and analysis of smart contracts using certain tools. 
Additionally, DeFi Protocol Risks: The Paradox of DeFi heavily explains countless vulnerabilities/risks of DeFi. 
The paper emphasizes that most of the risks with DeFi are due to the inherent nature of the blockchain, and possibly won't be able to be minimized. 
Furthermore, it also details that as DeFi grows to become more relevant, its dependency on the existing intermediaries also grows. 
So, its growth will depend on its ability to navigate and build compatibility with traditional finance and on how laws and regulations respond. 
The future of DeFi is very much up in the air, and it seems that for the time being, traditional intermediaries aren’t going anywhere.

Research Plan
Decentralized Finance (DeFi) first was developed in 2017 with the beginning of the Ethereum blockchain, which coincided with the development of smart contracts. 
DeFi smart contracts are run through open source software by a network of developers and programmers. 
One of the purposes behind DeFi is to end the need for a central exchange. 
The benefits of there being no central exchange are: better transparency, reduced costs, enhanced security, true traceability, improved speed and efficiency. 
Due to the benefits listed above, the motivation behind this project is to further understand the security risks associated with the front-ends of DeFi projects on the blockchain. 
To do this, we plan on using tools such as Slither, Mythril, and Oyente to analyze DeFi applications. 
As well as review recent reports developed by companies. 
The project will consist of analyzing the common vulnerabilities and observing if these vulnerabilities flow from one forked project to another. 
DeFi is extremely susceptible to hacking and the large amount of money being poured into this service makes it a massive target. 
The primary goal is to identify frequent vulnerabilities that are exploited and see if these vulnerabilities share association across various DeFi projects. 
By studying existing reports we will be able to recognize the common vulnerabilities and utilizing security analysis tools we will gain an understanding of how these vulnerabilities are created. 


Architecture 
Decentralized Finance (DeFi) is an infrastructure for blockchains that uses Ethereum. 
Additionally, it is run on an open source platform. DeFi consists of many layers, one of which consists of smart contracts. 
Smart contracts are simply smaller applications on blockchains. The issue with smart contracts is that the user has little control of the execution. 
Additionally, if there is a compromise in the code, the person responsible has inadvertently caused a breach that could potentially hurt millions. 

Progress - Schedule 
Our schedule has changed a bit, but we are still on track. 
We originally planned to research security tools first and understand how they work. 
However, many of our chosen research papers were able to help us with the study phase. 
We were able to recognize many of the common vulnerabilities in DeFi projects. 
Such as reentrancy attacks, integer overflows, market attacks, and protocol attacks that take advantage of the many blockchain components. 
There is a subteam that is currently collecting and organizing data by reviewing papers via Github repositories. 
Another subteam is identifying source code from existing tools with a focus on contract analysis. 
Within the next two weeks these teams will come together and present their findings. 
From then on we will work together to write the final report. 

